Authentication APIs Overview
====

## Overview

The LoginRadius Authentication set of APIs are part of the greater LoginRadius Customer Identity API and are used to implement the Standard (Email/Username + Password) account workflows along with other custom workflows.


## Usage / Security

The Authentication API Endpoints do not require your API Secret, which means they can be used directly on your front-end or back-end (whichever is best for your use case).

The majority of the Authentication API Endpoints can be leveraged by providing your API Key and the Customer's Access Token. 

The Access Token is a unique identifier key generated by LoginRadius that is activated after successful authentication. It is unique to each authenticated customer and is different even when the same customer authenticates the next time. 

The access token is combined with your LoginRadius API key forming a unique identifier that informs LoginRadius who the customer is and which social platform they are currently associated with, in order to retrieve the correct information.

For details on how access token can be passed to the Authentication APIs, visit [here](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/api-security#accesstokenbasedapiendpoints0).





## Most used Authentication APIs

* Auth Login by Email
* Auth User Registration by Email
* Auth Read Profile by Token


## Uses Case

Please see below for a list of use cases that are covered with the Authentication APIs

**Note:** For examples on using the Authentication APIs, you can leverage our public demo, available [here](https://github.com/LoginRadius/html5-sdk/tree/master/demo).

#####For Authentication:

Customers are logged in through Standard (Email/Username + Password) Authentication by one of the following Endpoints.

* [Auth Login By Email](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/authentication/auth-login-by-email)
* [Auth Login by Username](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/authentication/auth-login-by-username)


#####For Registration:

If you're looking to create a Standard (Email/Username + Password) account, you can register the customer by calling the following Endpoint via your front-end.

* [Auth User Registration by Email](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/authentication/auth-user-registration-by-email)


#####Authentication APIs related to profile update:

After a successful Authentication, you can leverage the access_token to allow the customer to update their profile.


* [Auth-update-profile-by-token](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/authentication/auth-update-profile-by-token) 
* [Auth-update-security-question-by-access-token](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/authentication/auth-update-security-question-by-access-token)


#####Authentication Endpoint to obtain customer profile data after successful authentication:

After a successful Authentication, you can leverage the access_token to pull the customer's profile data.

* [Auth Read Profile by token](/api/v2/customer-identity-api/authentication/auth-read-profiles-by-token)
